# Classification-of-Alzheimers-Disease-Based-on-Morphological-Features

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease that affects the health and life quality of patients, mostly in the elderly. Early diagnosis of the disease is the only way to slow down its progression and improve the life quality of patients, as there is no effective treatment for the disease and its course is irreversible. In recent years, there have been many computer-related studies that have developed many algorithms for the classification and detection of Alzheimer's disease. This work researches the Alzheimer's disease classification and is based on three kinds of morphological features extracted from magnetic resonance images (MRI), which are cerebral cortex thickness, surface area and volume. Some traditional machine learning methods are studied in this work: Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (Lasso) and Elastic Network are used as feature selection methods; support vector machine (SVM), k-NearestNeighbor (KNN), Gaussian Naive Bayes, Decision Tree, Random Forest and multi-kernel SVM are used and compared as classifiers. This work is based on the medical data of 234 subjects, including 88 health control (HC), 46 AD patients and 100 people who are suffering from mild cognitive impairment (MCI).According to the results, the feature extraction ability of elastic network is relatively better, and multi-kernel SVM performs best among these six classifiers. A feature fusion classification algorithm based on elastic network and multi-kernel SVM is also developed in this paper. This method performs significantly better than the single feature-based classification algorithm in the identification of AD patients and health control, and the identification of MCI patients and AD patients, and the
accuracy rate can reach more than 99%. In addition, it also significantly outperformed other algorithms, although the accuracy was only about 68% in the identification of MCI patients and health control. This study is a practical guide for computer-aided diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.
